Now with the custom event in place, we got the core features of Angular covered. Now Angular is a huge
framework with a lot of features and I'll not cover them all in this refresher which is just that,
a refresher
but there are two other major features I want to cover. Right now,
we have two components on the same page here,
person input and persons and this kind of makes sense for our very simple application here but you could
also have a setup where you want to have them on different pages
and technically, you still only have one page, that index.html file but you want to give the user of
your app the illusion of having multiple pages.
Now you can do this with a feature Angular offers which is called routing.
This essentially allows Angular to read the URL of your browser and render different components
based on that URL to again kind of replicates that feeling of having different parts in your app.
To set up routing,
you typically add new module which is normally named app-routing.module.ts,
that's the file name and there we export our app routing module. As all Angular modules, you need
to add ngModule, this decorator here and ngModule needs to be imported from @angular/core,
like that. Now in this module,
I want to set up routing, I want to set up the routes my Angular app knows, so the URLs it understands
and for which it knows which component to render. I'll define these routes here in a new constant
and the type of that constant will be the routes type which again is a type in this case which we can
import from an Angular package, here that is the @angular/router package. Now routes is an array, an array
of Javascript object where every object is the definition of a route the Angular router is then able
to pass and handle. Now a route definition in its simplest form has a path which is the path,
so the part after your domain you want to load a certain page for and you start this path you define
here without a leading slash,
so if you want to define something for your root page, your main page, like here http://localhost:4200/,
there is like invisible slash here, then you just have an empty path here. The second part then is
the component, that defines which component you want to render and that could be our persons component
there
and if you're referencing it here, you need to import it as well.
So let's import persons component from this persons folder and there, the persons component file.
Now that's one path but I want to have another path here too,
so let's add a second object to the routes array and that is let's say to be found under input.
So technically that would be http://localhost:4200/input,
this route here would then reach or this path would then reach this route and there
I want to render another component, the person input component.
So again, we need to add our input up here,
person input component from ./persons/person-input.component, like this.
These are the routes we have but of course just defining a constant like this which we never use
doesn't help Angular.
So in this ngModule here, we actually now need to do something,
we need to tell Angular about our routes.
We do that by adding the imports key where we can import other modules and from the @angular/router
package, I'll import the router module and I imported that here too,
router module.
Now this module can take some configuration and it does so with a special method it gives us, the for
root method where we can define the root,
so the main routes of our application and we pass in an array of routes which is exactly what I have
up here,
so we pass in routes there.
Now we could have done that directly in the app module and that wouldn't have been wrong but it's a
nice way of outsourcing this into a separate file to keep the app module clean but to use these routes
in our app module which is the first entry point of our app, we now need to export something by adding
an exports array here and we export a router module but this now is the configured router module you could
say.
So it's a router module with our root routes registered.
Now with that and you can ignore that error which it's showing here,
that's a bug in the IDE. Now with that, we can import our app routing module in the app module. We can add
it here to the imports array, the app routing module and of course since we want to use it here, we have
to add an import statement up there and by the way, the import statements here are Typescript features, they
are not to be mistaken with the imports array here which is an Angular feature. So here I import from
app-routing, not component but module, so this module will be created here. With that, the routes are registered,
to render the content of our routes, we now need to tell Angular where to render them and for that, I'll get
rid of my components in the app.component.html file and I'll add a new one, the router outlet element.
That is an element, a component, to be precise a directive Angular ships with which is available thanks
to us using router module. If I now save that, you will see that as the page reloads, we don't see anything,
right?
Well we also have no error and we actually only don't see anything because our passing data route logic
doesn't work anymore. If in the developer tools, we have a look at the elements tab, we can see that we do
have that router outlet and next to it, Angular did indeed add the right component, the persons component
but our list is empty because we have no data in there because you have to remember that we get our persons
through property binding but now that we're using routing, this doesn't work anymore because we're not directly
using our component tag anymore and hence we can't use the square brackets. We can't add them here on
the router outlet because that will load multiple routes actually, not just add one component all
the time.
So how can we now still pass data around? Well that is something we can solve with services, the other
major feature you got to know when working with Angular.